#summary The OpenVPN managment interface
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design

= The OpenVPN Managment Interface =
=== What is it and why it's useful? ===

The [http://openvpn.net OpenVPN] management interface allows to control a 
running instance of openvpn daemon by issue simple 
commands in a telnel like tcp connection.

It's partculary useful because it allow to start or stop
a vpn tunnel, to grab its current status and to provide login credentials interactively.

Because it was written just to allow GUI application to control the daemon instance, it's by no means a secure connection to openvpn, 
so it should be explicitly enabled in the config file, 
and it should be used just in a single user environment 
binded to localhost.

Follow this link for futher details: http://openvpn.net/index.php/documentation/miscellaneous/management-interface.html



=== How to configure a vpn tunnel for using with Tuntun ===

Configuring a vpn tunnel so it can be controlled from
*Tuntun* applet is quite easy.

Just add some OpenVPN directive at the end of you config file
and restart the daemon.

The relevants config options are:

_management <ip address> <port>_
   This _enable_ the managment interface, so that OpenVpn daemon
   can listen for commands on the specified local address and port. _*(required)*_

_management-hold_
   This directive tell openvpn to now open the connection
   on startup. (optional)

_management-query-passwords_
   Ask for passwords if required. (optional)

_auth-user-pass_
   Enable pam-unix username and password authentication
   (opzional)

_auth-retry interact_
   Reask the username and/or password in case of failure.
   (required if password prompt is enabled)